---
layout: default
title: Example -- Remote HPC Cluster
parent: Jupyter Notebook Access
grand_parent: In Situ Python Analysis
nav_order: 3
---
# Connecting to Kernel on HPC Cluster
{: .no_toc }
<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>
---

## Submitting Jobs to Computing Node
1. Use libyt API [`yt_run_JupyterKernel`]({% link libytAPI/ActivateJupyterKernel.md %}#yt_run_jupyterkernel) in simulation and compile:
   ```c++
   if (yt_run_JupyterKernel("LIBYT_STOP", true) != YT_SUCCESS) {
       // some error message
   }
   ```
   It will launch libyt Jupyter kernel once it detects `LIBYT_STOP`. 
   Remember to make `libyt` to use user provided connection file by setting `true`.
2. Submit the job to HPC cluster, your simulation should be running by now.
3. Create connection file `libyt_kernel_connection.json` in the same folder where simulation executable is, for example:
   ```json
   {
     "transport": "tcp",  
     "ip": "192.168.0.151",  
     "control_port": 53545,  
     "shell_port": 63994,  
     "stdin_port": 58177,  
     "iopub_port": 51243,  
     "hb_port": 61501,  
     "signature_scheme": "hmac-sha256",  
     "key": "64e13a6faaf1470eb1f86df565543923"
   }
   ```
   - `ip` should be the internal ip of the computing node, where MPI root process is. Normally, we can find it in `/etc/hosts`:
     ```bash
     cat /etc/hosts
     ```
   - Ports should be unused.
4. Wait for connection from Jupyter Notebook / JupyterLab (See below [Connecting to Kernel](#connecting-to-kernel))
5. Shutdown the kernel. ([How to Exit]({% link InSituPythonAnalysis/JupyterNotebookAccess/JupyterNotebook.md %}#how-to-exit))

## Connecting to Kernel

We will start a no-browser Jupyter Notebook / JupyterLab on login node. Then we use SSH tunneling (SSH port forwarding) to connect to this no-browser notebook.
Finally, we can open the web browser on our local laptop and connect to libyt Jupyter kernel.

Please go through [Login Node](#login-node) before going through [Local Laptop](#local-laptop) Section.

> :information_source: We don't need a running simulation before going through these steps. These steps can also check if SSH tunneling is working and can launch other kernels (like ipykernel) on login node, not just connecting to libyt kernel. 

### Login Node

1. Complete [Starting Jupyter Notebook / JupyterLab -- Step 1, 2, and 3]({% link InSituPythonAnalysis/JupyterNotebookAccess/JupyterNotebook.md %}#starting-jupyter-notebook--jupyterlab).
2. Launch Jupyter Notebook / JupyterLab in no-browser mode with port `XXXX` and allowing access from other IP address:
   ```bash
   jupyter-lab --no-browser --port=XXXX --ip="0.0.0.0"
   jupyter notebook --no-browser --port=XXXX --ip="0.0.0.0"
   ```
   Change `XXXX` to some unused port, this is just a placeholder.
3. You should see something like:
   ```text
   http://127.0.0.1:XXXX/lab?token=<token>
   ```
   - `<token>` is generated by Jupyter.

### Local Laptop
1. Find login node's internal ip address. Normally, we can find it in `/etc/hosts`:
   ```bash
   cat /etc/hosts
   ```
   Here, we assume login node's internal ip is `192.168.0.150`.
2. After [login node](#login-node) has started a no-browser jupyter notebook, use SSH port forwarding and connect to the Jupyter Notebook / JupyterLab server on the login node.
   ```bash
   ssh -p <host_port> -N <user>@<host> -L localhost:YYYY:192.168.0.150:XXXX
   ```
   - Replace `<host_port>`, `<user>`, and `<host>` to SSH connection settings. For example, an SSH connection would be like:
     ```bash
     ssh -p <host_port> <user>@<host>
     ```
     If there is no `<host_port>`, simply remove `-p <host_port>`.
   - `YYYY` is the port you want to bind to on local machine.
3. Leave the terminal open. (It's normal if it doesn't print anything after connection.)
4. Copy and paste the link from [Login Node -- Step 3](#login-node) and change `XXXX` to `YYYY` in browser.
5. Click "Libyt" kernel and connect to libyt Jupyter kernel launched by libyt API [`yt_run_JupyterKernel`]({% link libytAPI/ActivateJupyterKernel.md %}#yt_run_jupyterkernel).

